# AI-Driven Respiratory Distress Syndrome Prediction for Very Low Birth Weight Infants: Korean Multicenter Prospective Cohort

***Abstract***
Respiratory distress syndrome (RDS) is a disease that commonly affects premature infants whose lungs are not fully developed. It results from a lack of surfactant in the lungs. The more premature the infant, the greater the likelihood of having RDS. However, even though not all premature infants have RDS, preemptive treatment with artificial pulmonary surfactant is administered in most cases. In the effort to avoid such unnecessary treatment, an AI model was developed for use in prediction of RDS in premature infants. This study was conducted for evaluation of 13,120 very low birth weight infants (VLBWIs) who were newborns weighing less than 1,500g (n=76 hospitals). To predict RDS in VLBWIs, we used basic infant information, maternity history, pregnancy/birth process, family history, resuscitation procedure, and test results at birth such as blood gas analysis and Apgar score. First, a comparison of the prediction performances from seven different machine learning models was performed; the results indicated that the most accurate prediction performance was obtained using support vector machine (SVM). A 5-layer deep neural network (DNN) was then proposed in order to enhance the prediction performance from the selected features derived from SVM-based analysis of feature importance. An ensemble approach combining multiple models from 5-fold cross-validation was subsequently developed. Our proposed ensemble 5-layer DNN including the top-19 features provided high sensitivity (83.24%), specificity (86.78%), accuracy (84.00%), balanced accuracy (85.01%), and an area under the curve (0.9216). Based on the model that we developed, a public web application that enables easy access for prediction of RDS in premature was deployed. 
